Add 1.3.45 release notes (#98)
fiskaltrust/release-notes: middleware/2023-03-15-1.3.45.md

---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.45
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.45 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware solved an issue in ByoDC leading to out of memory issued on helipad upload.
<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Feature: Respect HelipadHelper configuration in ByoDC

> We've integrated the HelipadHelper into ByoDC. This provides better upload stablilty and ByoDC now respects the HelipadHelper configuration of the cashbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've integrated the standard HelipadHelper into ByoDC. This provides better upload stability and ByoDC now respects the HelipadHelper configuration of the cashbox.
```

> If you are experiencing `OutOfMemory` exceptions during helipad upload please configure the HelipadHelper like described [here](TODO-link-to-KBA).

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this KBA exists 🥲

## Feature: Update ByoDC base images

> We've update the ByoDC docker base images to debian bullseye and ubuntu jammy.

Reviewer: I always have to look up the numbers 😄 
```suggestion
We've update the ByoDC Docker base images to Debian 11 (Bullseye) and Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish)
```

To get the newest Middleware updates in ByoDC you need to update your `config.yaml` to use the new tags:

```yaml
byodc:
  image:
    tag: 1.3-bullseye
```

Or to pin a specific version:

```yaml
byodc:
  image:
    tag: 1.3.45-bullseye
```

## Feature: Better ByoDC helm-chart installation process

We've changed how the Emissary Ingress is installed in the ByoDC helm-chart.

This should make installation and troubleshooting more transparent. Also this allows for multiple ByoDC installations in one cluster (See [this guide](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter/blob/master/how-to-multiple-installations.md) for more information).

:::danger

Please follow the [Migration Guide](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/helm-charts/blob/master/bring-your-own-datacenter/MIGRATION.md#v1345) when *updating* to this version of BYODC. 

> Attempting the update without following the steps described there could destroy your BYODC installation.

Author: I've mostly put this there so people really follow the migration guide ^^ I think all probems are actually recoverable
